Assignments
Log into Blackboard, click on a specific module and click on the “Assessments” tab on the left sidebar then on “Assignment Documents”. 
Here you access assignment brief’s and CRG’s, submission areas and resit documentation. Check the “Hand In Dates” spreadsheet, located in “Assignment Deadlines”, to find out when assignments are due and what day the marks are to be released.


Attendance
Your lecturer will provide an attendance code that you are to enter in the attendance page located on Blackboard. Your attendance is monitored for every session. If your attendance rate is low you will receive a warning to improve your attendance. To submit absence requests, click on the Absence Requests section on your Timetable page. Fill in the details to submit your absence requests.


Attendance Code
Your lecturer will provide an attendance code that you are to enter in the attendance page located on Blackboard. Your attendance is monitored for every session. If your attendance rate is low you will receive a warning to improve your attendance. To submit absence requests, click on the Absence Requests section on your Timetable page. Fill in the details to submit your absence requests.


Blackboard
Blackboard is an online tool that the university uses as its learning portal or Virtual Learning Environment (VLE). It’s a website which will include all of your course information and where you will upload and submit assignments, work and even your dissertation. After you have submitted your work, Blackboard will also be where you go to find out your grades.


Campus
The are on which a university is based, which includes its buildings. The university has several campuses, in addition to the main Brayford Pool campus in the centre of the city: Riseholme Campus just north of the city and Holbeach campus in the south of the county.


Candidate Number
Your candidate number can be found on your ID card and timetable, it begins with the first three letters of your surname followed by 8 numbers.


Careers
From Blackboard, click “My Careers” at the top. Here you access the “Careers & Employability” department that offers recruitment tools and support to find jobs, placements etc. They are open Monday to Friday 09:00-16:00.


Contact
If you are unsure who to contact, get in touch with the School of Computer Science office. You can contact a member of staff by email. The staff directory includes their email addresses. To contact support services, contact via the “My Support Services” section on Blackboard.


Disseration
A dissertation is an extended piece of writing on a subject of your choice. Not all courses require you t write dissertations, and the length of a dissertation varies from course to course. If you do you have to write a dissertation, you will be assigned a dissertation tutor who will support and guide you throughout the process.


Deadlines
You should aim to complete your assignment work before the deadline. Otherwise you will face a 10% penalty for every working day that your assignment is late.  Check the “Hand In Dates” spreadsheet, located in “Assignment Deadlines”, to find out when assignments are due and what day the marks are to be released.


Degree
A degree is what a university student studies towards at university and achieves at graduation. It is an official qualification and a degree can be at an undergraduate (BA/BSc/BEng) or postgraduate (MA) level. Undergraduate degrees can usually be achieved after three years of study, whilst a Master’s degree can be achieved after one or two years of study, following on from an undergraduate degree.


Drop In Session
These are optional sessions, which you can attend all or part of, to ask questions and receive support.


Email
University staff will only use students’ official University of Lincoln email address, not external personal email addresses. Students are expected to check their email twice a day and set up a notification system in order to not miss vital information. The staff directory includes their email addresses.


Extenuating Circumstances
Applications for Extenuating Circumstances can be submitted if you have not been able to apply for an extension and there is a factor that may have affected your ability to attain at your best. These are submitted online and are processed centrally. You need to provide date relevant evidence for any claim. They do not allow adjustments to your original mark; they allow you a second chance at an assessment without it counting as a resit.


Extensions
Extensions must be applied for three working days before the original assessment deadline. You must provide legitimate evidence to backup your request. Further details can be found by clicking on “School of Computer Science” under the course ID panel. On the left sidebar click “Useful Documents” then Extension Documentation. Here, you access the request form and guidelines. Extension requests must be sent to “socsextensions@lincoln.ac.uk”. Extensions cannot be made for TCA’s (Time Constricted Assignments).


Feedback
Feedback is essential to know what you have done well and where you have gone wrong with your work. Feedback can be given by your lecturers during their office hours before a deadline, or via Blackboard when your assignments are returned. You should take on board any feedback given to you as it will enable you to reach higher grades in future assignments.


Fresher
A fresher is a first year university student. Freshers events take place on the first week of the academic year.


Grades
Your grades can be found under the module page, then on the left sidebar click “My Grades”. Contact the module coordinator for further queries. Grades will be published at 16:00 on release day of the mark. Check the “Hand In Dates” spreadsheet, located in “Assignment Deadlines”, to find out when assignments are due and what day the marks are to be released.


Graduation
Your graduation is the culmination of all your hard work and is a ceremony that takes place at the Lincoln Cathedral where you are presented with your degree certificate


Grant
A grant is a form of financial aid that is given to students that meet specific criteria. Unlike a loan, a grant (or bursary) does not need to be paid back. When applying for student finance you can select to share your financial date with the university. This will automatically allow the university to see if you fit any of the criteria enabling you to receive a grant.


Help
For queries regarding your academic performance and general help, contact your personal tutor. For help on an assessment, contact a member of the module team for support or visit the SoC Help Desk on Microsoft Teams. Student Support services can be accessed from Blackboard and are open Monday to Friday from 08:30.


ICT
Found on the first floor of the Minerva building or: “https://ict.lincoln.ac.uk/“. Here you enquire about any problems you have with your device or internet connection.


Internships
Contact or visit the “Careers & Employability” department to inquire about placements and internships. They will provide support on finding placements, how to apply for them, improving your CV, mock interviews, etc. They are open Monday to Friday 09:00-16:00 and have drop in sessions.


Lectures
Currently lectures are online due to the pandemic. Lectures can be watched live and are recorded for future playback. They are presented on Microsoft Teams. The lecture material on Blackboard, will have a links to the lecture and workshops recordings.


Library
The library is open 24 hours to study in, the help desk is open from 08:30-16:50. You can access the library from the Blackboard homepage. You can search for books and articles online, view and request access to their availability. The library hosts events, drop in sessions and workshops.


Masters
A masters degree is a postgraduate degree. You can do a masters after completing your undergraduate degree. They are usually subject specific and will enhance your knowledge on a specific topic.


Module
Each course is made up of modules, these are different topics that are essential to your learning that make up a percentage of your degree. They can be worth 15, 30 or even 45 credits. In your second and third year, you will have more choice over what modules you study.


Password
If you have forgotten your password, click the “Forgot your password” link on the login page and follow the steps to recover or change your password.


Personal Tutor
Your personal tutor is an academic member of staff for your course and is there to support and guide you through your studies and answer any queries you may have. Roughly once a term you will have a personal tutor meeting which is like an update where they will check on your progress and you can speak to them about any worries you might have. You can contact them at any time via email as they are your personal tutor.


Placements
Placements are a great way to improve your future employability. They can vary in length from a single day to a year and can be either paid or unpaid. Contact or visit the “Careers & Employability” department to inquire about placements and internships. They will provide support on finding placements, how to apply for them, improving your CV, mock interviews, etc. They are open Monday to Friday 09:00-16:00 and have drop in sessions.


Plagiarism 
Plagiarism is when you copy somebody else’s work without giving them credit or try to pass off another person’s thoughts, ideas, writings or images as one’s own. Plagiarism is easily detected in assignments as most assignments are submitted through Turnitin which provides a plagiarism percentage to see how much of your work is not you own.


Referencing
Referencing is when you cite which book, journal article or other sources you found a particular quote from when writing an essay. If you don’t do this, it would seem that you were claiming the quote as your own and this would be considered as plagiarism.


Renew
The loan time on library books will be automatically extended as long the book has not been reserved by another student.


Research
Is the use of both established and new techniques to address perviously unanswered questions. Research is the backbone of all scientific disciplines.


Reserve
Books and resources can be reserved online by logging on to the library website. Students can have four concurrent reservations at a time. You will receive a notice to your student email account when the item is ready for collection. You then have 3 days from the date on the email to collect your reservation. 


Resits
If you have failed, scored under 40 for a module, you will have to resit the module. Resits take place in August and if you pass the resit, your mark will capped at 40% (a pass mark). 


Semester
Your academic year at university is split into two semesters- September to Christmas and Christmas to the summer. Normally you will be required to complete an assignment for each module every semester.


Student Finance
Funding from the UK Government through the Student Loans Company to help students pay for the cost of a University course. Usually includes a tuition fee loan and a maintenance loan.


Student Union
The SU is run by a dedicated team of ex-students so they know exactly what students want and need. They are almost like the student government of the university, and they implement changes that need to be made. They listen to suggestions made by students and make sure they happen. The SU also has its own venues, the Tower Bar, the Swan and the Engine Shed.


Societies
Societies are a great way of making new friends at university are strongly recommended to get involved with. There is a societies fair at the start of the term, where you can browse the societies available. There is definitely a society for everyone, and you can create your own society if you can’t find one you like. Societies are completely separate from your course and are a lot of fun. 


Submissions
PDF files should solely be submitted to the Turnitin submission area. Any other files to submit should be compressed into a zip file and submitted to the supporting documents area. Assignment deadlines can be viewed by clicking on the “Assignment Deadlines”.


Support
The university has multiple support services which can be accessed by clicking “My Support Services”. These include the Student Support Centre, Financial Support, Wellbeing Centre, etc. Contact support services if you need to. All support services are open Monday to Friday from 08:30. You can access any of these services by clicking on them. There are also drop in sessions with an advisor with an advisor from 12:00-14:00 Monday-Wednesday and Friday, and 17:00-19:00 on Thursdays.  


Term Dates
Dates are the following for 2020-2021:
Online Orientation Week: Monday 5th October 2020 - Friday 9th October 2020
Holiday:                            Monday 21st December 2020 - Friday 3rd January 2021
Examinations:                  Monday 1st February 2021 - Friday 12th February 2021
Holiday:                            Monday 29th March 2021 - Friday 11th April 2021
Examinations:                  Monday 24th May 2021 - Friday 11th June 2021
Resits:                             Monday 16th August 2021 - Friday 27th August 2021
Graduation:                     Monday 6th September 2021 - Friday 9th September 2021



Timetable
Your timetable can be accessed from Blackboard and will display you timetable for your academic year. Here you make any timetabling queries and fill out absence requests. You can also view on an online map of the campus to help navigate your way.


Wellbeing
Refers to both your physical and metal health. Tutors and staff at university will be looking out for your wellbeing and ensuring you are coping. If at any point, you feel you are not coping or there is something on your mind, you can visit the university’s Wellbeing Centre and talk to an advisor and appropriate support will be provided if needed. Drop-in sessions from 12:00-14:00 every weekday and 17:00-19:00 on Thursdays, no appointment necessary.


Workshops
Currently workshops are online due to the pandemic. Workshops can be watched live and are recorded for future playback. They are presented on Microsoft Teams. The workshop material on Blackboard, will have a links to the lecture and workshops recordings.






